# ai-case-study
Ryan Goda

Module #1 Assignment

                                                                            **VANGUARD BRIEF STUDY**

    The Vanguard Group is a financial firm incorporated in 1975 by John C. Bogle. John C. Bogle wanted to create an ideology of ownership in which the investors of Vanguard Group, were in fact the owners; therefore, "Investor Ownership." _(Vanguard's History)_ The Vanguard Group is funded via Investor Ownership. While the exact dollar amount of funding is unknown, as of 2022, "Assets Under Management "AUM" at Vanguard were worth $8,400,000,000,000." (8.4 Trillion.) _(Published by Statista Research Department)_ While not 100% direct with media outlets, Vanguard Group CEO "Mortimer J. Buckley" commented on "Artificial Intelligence and the impact it will have on the world, specifically from the standpoint of cognitive activities and how they are "routine."" _(Croce)_ In the past, The Vanguard Group has invested in Artificial Intelligence. (It should be noted that utilization of Artificial Intelligence in Vanguard has not directly been spoken of to the general public, yet, it has been uncovered that Vanguard Group's use of Artificial Intelligence dating back to 2018. As of February 2024, use of Artificial Intelligence in Quantitative Investment Strategies as well as Machine Learning.) In short, no notable issues are being faced, Vanguard is attempting to utilize Artificial Intelligence to remain a leader in the Investment market through early adaptation.

    Vanguard's intended demographic is comprised of people with high-socioeconomic standing, who are willing to invest large sums of money for even larger returns. As of year-end 2023, Vanguard reported >50,000,000 investors. (This number, while correct, may not accurately reflect true "Investor Ownership," but may also include Vanguard's demographic of investors involved in Vanguard's ETF Venture.) _(Rekenthaler)_ The Vanguard Group offers top-of-the-line, strategic investments for people of high-socioeconomic status. Due to this, Vanguard is able to invest large sums of capital to turn a high ROI for customers, while also taking a cut. In comparison to other investment firms and financial companies alike, many firms in the finance sector are unable to produce high ROI for customers and the firms themselves. Firms with large capital are able to become known as "market movers" or "whales." These are these types of firms who invest millions or even billion into acquisitions and markets alike which result in the entirety of a market moving in a certain direction, a great deal of market movement of advantage to these firms. Aside from this, firms of such high stature and "deep-pockets" are also able to perform lengthy and high-costing capital expenditures to their advantage. An example of this would be the R&D budget within Vanguard, opposed to a smaller firm.

    While technologies that Vanguard uses are not entirely known due to competitive advantage and privacy, this topic has been briefly and in-descriptely commented on by the current CEO. It can be theorized that Vanguard uses CRM, Artificial Intelligence, and Quantitative Strategy Enablement technologies to function as a financial firm. _(Croce)_ Major trends that have taken place in the Financial realm as of recent include ERP, DEI, ESG, and AI Usage to streamline processes. Along with this, other major companies that exist in the financial field include: Fidelity, Blackrock, and Merrill Lynch; to name a few. These companies also employ the industry trends into their operations.

    Vanguard works within the financial world. Due to Vanguards long existence, it has made a long-lasting, and continues to make a long-lasting impact on the financial world. In contrast to its competitors, it has worked to prioritize "Investor Ownership" to prove to its demographic that it puts its investors before the company’s longevity and profitability. This has proven successful as Vanguard's longevity is rivaled only by its competitors, and truly shows the profitability available when the company has gained the trust of its investors. To note, Vanguard survived the 2008 Stock Market crash, a time in which the United States economy almost failed. In comparison, many other firms either barely scrapped by due to funding from the United States Government or just sank all together. Regardless, Vanguard has pushed through hardships to which other have failed. Not only this, in wake of the 2008 stock market crash many high-earning investors and common-folk were extremely leery of investments because of the crash. Vanguard's ability to reel investor relations back in after the crash goes to show how dedicated Vanguard is and has been. _(Marquit)_

    If given the opportunity to advise future capital expenditures and product enhancements at Vanguard, I would begin by identifying previously laid objectives and seeing how they par with the ever-changing economy of today. Due to Vanguard's "high-class name," I do not believe it would be a worthwhile expenditure to branch into a new demographic; this could be demeaning for investors already partnered with Vanguard. Along with identifying objectives as such, I would continue to close off outside media and keep knowledge or technologies "close-to-the-vest" as it is not out of the realm of possibility for other companies to utilize technologies to their advantage, to which we would be utilizing as well. As for products, it is known and highlighted in the paper that Vanguard has previously ventured into the ETF market, with profit proving the expenditure well worth. _(Rekenthaler)_ A competitive advantage financial firm "JP Morgan Chase" has is branches into investment markets, as well as commercial markets. To reference, "during the 2008 Stock market Crash, the Federal Reserve bailed JP Morgan Chase out, lending thirty-billion USD to save JP Morgan Chase from crashing like other firms such as "Lehman Brothers." Along with this, the federal reserve also allowed investment banks such as JP Morgan to move into commercial banking, giving them access to a whole new demographic during a time of American desperation." This not only gave JP Morgan a competitive edge on companies such as Vanguard, but time and opportunity has led JP Morgan toward further branching out to Asset Management, Wealth Management, Commercial Banking, etc... _(Marquit)_ Ultimately, JP Morgan has remained a top competitor in the financial markets without deprecating what they are known for, asset management and investments. From this, it could be wise for Vanguard to make the same-play into the commercial banking market to branch out towards new audiences. Analyzing why it would be smart for Vanguard to move into the commercial banking market can be allotted to identifying the pros and cons of the situation. Pros being they access a very large audience that was not yet accessible, this could possibly involve the federal reserve’s permission. A few base layer cons could be, becoming heavily involved with the federal reserve and wealthy investors of a different demographic leaving Vanguard due to Vanguard branching into lower socioeconomic demographics. Ultimately, a decision would need to be posed as to if the pre-existing investors of Vanguard financially outweigh the targeted new demographic in the short term, as well as the long-term. With the projected additional service that Vanguard could utilize, an increase in CRM and use of AI could be technologies that would positively impact the company as well as the user-base. In the realm of CRM, this could help in identifying consumers and where they are in the consumer lifecycle which will be needed and expended upon if Vanguard shifted towards commercial banking. Use of Artificial Intelligence could also come into play in identifying customers based on demographic data, an example of this would be taking demographic data from states and counties in the United States and identifying answers to questions such as "Who is looking for a commercial bank?" and "Have banks in a certain area changed their terms to which we could capitalize on the opportunity to move into that customer base?" The use of AI could also branch into major trends highlighted above, specifically streamlining the activities, and providing solutions towards dealing with a new customer base. Along with this, AI's ability to create pictures could aid in advertising towards the new demographic.

    These technologies are appropriate for this potential expenditure as although Vanguard currently has a large user-base, inviting a new demographic and ultimately a new-user base could be deprecating to the company if not done correctly. Questions to ask could be "Do we have enough employees to onboard new customers?" and "Could we see a downturn in performance for our original investors pre-expenditure?" If these needs could not be met, original investors may decide to depart from Vanguard and further, systemic issues in moving into the commercial banking industry could emerge, such as creation of a mobile application for commercial bank-users. This would be a separate expenditure that would also require R&D as well as investment before-hand, which could turn to be not-profitable.



                                                                              Resources Utilized

    “Vanguard by the Numbers.” Vanguard By The Numbers, Vanguard, 2023, corporate.vanguard.com/content/corporatesite/us/en/corp/who-we-are/sets-us-apart/facts-and-figures.html. Accessed 27 Feb. 2024. 
                                                                                        
    Croce, Brian. “Vanguard CEO Tim Buckley Says AI Will Revolutionize Asset Management ...” Pionline, 24 May 2023, www.pionline.com/money-management/vanguard-ceo-tim-buckley-says-ai-will-revolutionize-asset-management. Accessed 27 Feb. 2024. 

    Vanguard’s, History. “Vanguard’s History.” Vanguard-History, 2023, corporate.vanguard.com/content/corporatesite/us/en/corp/who-we-are/sets-us-apart/our-history.html/. Accessed 27 Feb. 2024. 

    Published by Statista Research Department, NA, and Apr 28. “Global: Leading Investment Firms 2022.” Statista, 28 Apr. 2023, www.statista.com/statistics/1378611/worldwide-investment-fund-firms-leading-by-assets-under-management/.Accessed 27 Feb. 2024. 

    Rekenthaler, John. “Vanguard Won the Loser’s Game.” Morningstar, Inc., 12 Nov. 2019, www.morningstar.com/funds/vanguard-won-losers-game. Accessed 27 Feb. 2024. 

    Marquit, Miranda. “Too Big to Fail Banks: Where Are They Now?” Investopedia, 2022, www.investopedia.com/insights/too-big-fail-banks-where-are-they-now/. Accessed 27 Feb. 2024. 
